first up in the adjust color menu is
remove color cast this simply lets you
select an area of the image that should
be a neutral gray white or black from
that elements will try to balance the
colors of the image and remove any color
cast in this image I've added a blue
cast to make this a little more obvious
in the video I'll choose remove color
cast and click on an area of this cloud
it should be gray
that one click removes the blue cast
this isn't a tool I use very often but
if you have an image with an obvious
color cast this can fix it quickly the
next command is one that I use very
often in elements and that is hue
saturation I've already used it a couple
times in the course to demonstrate other
functions in the hue/saturation
adjustment window we have a menu at the
top that includes master which means all
colors are the full image and then
there's individual colors under that I'm
going to keep it set on master right now
when i move the hue slider the colors
for the entire image shift this is
essentially like turning the color wheel
redshift to blues or greens depending on
where I move the slider move it all the
way to either end and the colors are
pretty much reversed saturation
increases or decreases the amount of
color in each pixel I can knock the
image all the way down to black and
white or boost all the colors the
lightness slider is the same as moving
the gray slider in levels it will adjust
the overall lightness of the image
the colorize checkbox makes the image
monotone I can then set what color and
how saturated that color is with the
sliders so this is a highly saturated
blue monochrome version of this image
now let's try editing only a certain
range of colors within the image I'm
going to go to the color menu and select
the Reds when I do that and adjust the
saturation slider you can see that only
the Reds and the image change move the
hue slider and only the Reds in the
image will change their hue at the
bottom of the window I can adjust the
sliders in this color band to set a
custom selection of color that will be
affected so I might extend this to
include more yellows and oranges so I
can adjust the colors of the sunset
better the inner sliders here affect the
actual range of colors so those are what
I'm going to focus on the end sliders
control how much fall off or gradient
there will be from that range of colors
these just prevent a drastic change of
color in the image with no fade in
between with this selection I'm
adjusting just about the entire range of
colors in the sunset oranges yellows and
reds
switch to blues in the color menu and
the bottom slider adjusts to select only
a range of blues experimenting with
different color ranges is a good idea to
see what sort of different improvements
or interesting effects you can apply to
your images
you